console: Add guide for troubleshooting oidc (#940)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/console/single-sign-on/identity-providers/generic-oidc.mdx

        name: joe@yourcompany.com
    roleName: editor
```

## Troubleshooting

### Used claim key did not exist in user's id token

> If you used a claim key in the role bindings that did not exist in the id token, Console will print

Reviewer: Question about terminology: A code comment above `userIdentifyingClaimKey` uses the phrase `identity provider's issued access token payload`. Is it called an ID token or an access token? We should be consistent.

```suggestion
If the claim key in a role binding does not exist in the ID token, Redpanda Console prints
```

Author: id token is correct, good call

an error message in the backend to assist you with this. The error message contains the claim key 

> that Console tried to look up, as well as all existing claim keys for this specific user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that Redpanda Console tried to look up, as well as all existing claim keys for this specific user.
```

> The error message may look similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example error message:
```

> > ```

Reviewer: No need for the `>` symbols.

> {
>   "level": "error",
>    "msg": "the specified user identifying claim does not exist for the user that has logged in",
>    "found_claim_keys": ["oid", "aud", "sub"],
>    "used_claim_key": "uid"
> }
> ```

> ### User claim keys and values are unknown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find your claim keys and values
```

> If you are unsure what claim keys and values would be attached to your id token by your identity provider,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unsure about which claim keys and values are attached to your id token by your identity provider,
```

> this section guides you how to extract these claims for inspection. Because the claim values may be 
> sensitive, these will never be logged in the backend and instead the claims can only be inspected for your
> own account in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can extract them from the JSON web token that is sent to your browser as a cookie. Because the claim values may be 
sensitive, Redpanda Console never logs them in the backend.
```

> When you browse to the Console login landing page it will ask you to authetncate with your configured

Reviewer: These are instructions. It would be clearer to present them as numbered steps.

1. Open the Redpanda Console login page. Don't click the **OIDC** login button yet.
2. Open your browser's developer tools and inspect the network requests.
3. If your browser has the option to preserve logs, enable it.
  Without this option enabled, some browsers such as Google Chrome truncate the network request logs after a 
  redirection.
4. Click the **OIDC** login button and authenticate with your identity provider.
5. Search the network requests in your browser's developer tools for a request that starts with the relative path `/auth/callbacks/oidc?code=`.
6. Copy the value of the `jwt` cookie in the `set-cookie` header. The value of that cookie is an encrypted and compressed JSON web token.
7. Send the JSON web token to Redpanda Console to decode.
  ```
  curl -sL -X POST 'https://your-console-url.com/admin/session-token/decode' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-raw '{
      "token": "<your-token>"
  }'
  ```
  The response is a JSON object, which includes your token in the `oAuthToken.access_token` field.
8. Paste your token into https://jwt.io, where you can inspect all your decoded claim keys.

Reviewer: This assumes that OIDC is the label of the button, if not, we should update the bold test to the button label.

> When you browse to the Console login landing page it will ask you to authetncate with your configured
> OIDC provider. Open your browser's developer tools and head to the place where you can inspect network
> requests. Some browsers such as Google Chrome will truncate the network request logs after you've been
> redirected. For this troubleshooting guide we want to preserve these logs and thus make sure to enable
> the preserve log option.
> 
> Now start the login flow, by clicking the OIDC login button and authenticate with your identity provider.
> After successful authentication you will see various network requests. Search the list for a request
> that starts with the relative path `/auth/callbacks/oidc?code=`. The HTTP response contains a `set-cookie`
> header, where we set the `jwt` cookie. The value of that cookie is an encrypted and compressed JSON web token.
> Copy the value and initiate a request to the decode endpoint which will print the decoded values:
> 
> ```
> curl -sL -X POST 'https://your-console-url.com/admin/session-token/decode' \
> -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
> --data-raw '{
>     "token": "ey..."
> }'
> ```
> 
> Replace `ey...` with your copied token. You will receive a JSON formatted response which includes
> your `oAuthToken.access_token`. Copy this token, head to https://jwt.io, paste the token value
> and you can inspect all decoded claims that can be used in your role bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the Redpanda Console login page. Don't click the OIDC login button yet.

1. Open your browser's developer tools and inspect the network requests.

1. If your browser has the option to preserve logs, enable it.
  Without this option enabled, some browsers such as Google Chrome truncate the network request logs after a redirection.
  
1. Click the OIDC login button and authenticate with your identity provider.

1. Search the network requests in your browser's developer tools for a request that starts with the relative path `/auth/callbacks/oidc?code=`.

1. Copy the value of the `jwt` cookie in the `set-cookie` header. The value of that cookie is an encrypted and compressed JSON web token.

1. Send the JSON web token to Redpanda Console to decode.

  \```bash
  curl -sL -X POST 'https://your-console-url.com/admin/session-token/decode' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-raw '{
      "token": "<your-token>"
  }'
  \```

  The response is a JSON object, which includes your token in the `oAuthToken.access_token` field.

8. Paste your token into [https://jwt.io/](https://jwt.io/), where you can inspect all your decoded claim keys.
```

>    "found_claim_keys": ["oid", "aud", "sub"],
>    "used_claim_key": "uid"
> }
> ```

### Find your claim keys and values

If you are unsure about which claim keys and values that your identity provider attached to your ID token,
you can extract them from the JSON web token that is sent to your browser as a cookie. Because the claim values may be 
sensitive, Redpanda Console never logs them in the backend.

1. Open the Redpanda Console login page. Don't click the OIDC login button yet.

1. Open your browser's developer tools and inspect the network requests.

1. If your browser has the option to preserve logs, enable it.
  Without this option enabled, some browsers such as Google Chrome truncate the network request logs after a redirection.
  
1. Click the OIDC login button and authenticate with your identity provider.

1. Search the network requests in your browser's developer tools for a request that starts with the relative path `/auth/callbacks/oidc?code=`.

1. Copy the value of the `jwt` cookie in the `set-cookie` header. The value of that cookie is an encrypted and compressed JSON web token.

1. Send the JSON web token to Redpanda Console to decode.

>   \```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```bash
```

  curl -sL -X POST 'https://your-console-url.com/admin/session-token/decode' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-raw '{
      "token": "<your-token>"
  }'

>   \```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```
```
